as Virginia Satir said problems are not
the problem coping is the problem and I
think that's the thing that really trips
anyone up is when you encounter a
problem the way that you react to it
becomes an even bigger impediment than
the original thing it's the Cascade of
emotions that captures people off-guard
it's the Cascade of neuro chemistry that
people think that they have to react to
that feels so real that they can't
imagine that that reaction is merely
from one perspective that is not the
only perspective and in fact if you
shift the way that you're viewing what
happened to you you could have a totally
different reaction but people don't see
that and the reaction feels like the
manifestation of truth and that's how
people get themselves caught up that's
why
failure become something to be feared
because the failure feels negative it
feels like a loss it feels like a death
because it's the death of the ego it's
the death of the vision of yourself is
capable of something it's the death of
your vision of yourself as perfect as
better than but once you let go of that
once you're able to sidestep that and
see the problem in a whole new light to
see the failure in a whole new light you
can have a breakthrough and that's why
Wendell Phillips said what is defeat
nothing but education nothing but the
first steps towards something better and
when you can take that perspective when
you realize that the way that you look
at the world will define everything
about your existence and that you choose
that it's literally a decision that you
get to make to choose the perspective
from which you see something so you can
look at the failure as the death of
something as proof that you're not good
enough
whoo that just like people have told you
you're not worthy that's a perspective
and if you take it you're gonna see the
truth of that the truth of that would be
laid bare before you it will be evident
for everyone to see
simply because you chose it but if
instead you choose to see that as a
learning opportunity as a chance to
figure something out to find out why you
failed to get better to identify the
lack in your skill set and to fill that
in through commitment through practice
through discipline to understand that
what the human body and mind are
designed to do is change they're
designed to get better so suddenly the
failure becomes an instruction it
becomes education and once you have that
then coping suddenly becomes very easy
it isn't the problem the problem in fact
becomes the solution the failure becomes
the thing that's going to teach the
failure is the instruction that you need
to be great to be worthy to be better
than people think you are but it all
comes down to your perspective so my
friends I beg of you
sheez
you
Kendrick Lamar said it was always me
versus the world until I found it's me
versus me I think that's where most of
us start we think that there's something
outside that we're struggling against we
think that literally the world is
against us and we're raging against
something but we don't even know what
that thing is that we're raging against
and as you fight and try to make your
way and as you try to accomplish
something incredible you find that
you're not making any headway and that
moment that you finally begin to break
through and build something
extraordinary in that moment the
realization is that it was always you
trying to figure out how to become the
best version of yourself and once you
grasp that once you let the noise die
away once you stop worrying about what
other people think what other people
want what other people have accomplished
what other people have once you let go
of all of that and ask one simple
question how extraordinary can I become
what am i capable of what are my limits
how far can i push myself in this time
that I have on this earth exactly how
much of my potential can I wring out of
myself and by that I don't mean
something mystical by that I mean how
much can I become capable of how far can
i push myself what can I build how can I
change this world but all by doing one
simple thing pushing myself to give
better every day and as Napoleon Hill
said strength and growth come only
through continuous effort and struggle
so the irony is when you let go of
trying to please the world when you let
go of trying to change the world when
you stop trying to move mountains you
will realize that a far harder struggle
awaits you and that struggle is becoming
something new that struggle is becoming
something different that struggle is we
centering yourself finding out who you
are building yourself piece by piece
till finally you realize what it takes
to actually become a better version of
yourself you realize that it takes
nothing less than your everything your
total commitment every bit of focus that
you have a willingness to break yourself
down so that you can build yourself back
up but if you're willing to put in that
effort if you will need to transform if
you're willing to change and fight and
struggle you will be rewarded with
growth you'll be rewarded with
improvement you'll be rewarded with the
ability to close your eyes imagine a
world and then open your eyes and make
that world come true
[Music]
you